My name is Lestat.
I am an iOS software engineer
and I'm here to talk to you
about integrating with Facebook,
Twitter, and Sinai Weibo on iOS and OS X.
So let's get started.
So far this week you've been fire
hosed with a lot of announcements,
I'm sure.
So we're going to start by just
having an overview of the lay
of the land on iOS and OS X,
see some of the new social features
that we've brought to both platforms.
On iOS 6, you're all familiar, I'm sure,
with Twitter integration,
which we added in iOS 5.
And in iOS 6,
we have finally brought the long
anticipated Facebook integration.
And--
For our Chinese customers,
we have added integration
with Sinai Weibo,
which is a Chinese microblogging service.
On OS X, Mountain Lion,
we brought Facebook, Twitter,
Sinai Weibo, and in addition,
we brought Flickr,
Vimeo as social sharing options
and a few other social services
that are popular in China.
What does that all mean to you?
You are developers and you're
sitting here wondering what that
integration means to you and your apps.
So I've prepared this diagram to
kind of help us look at the world
as it is now and how you can benefit
from these integration features.
So on one hand,
we have shareable content.
This is user land.
They have text, movies, files,
they have media,
all provided by your apps.
And on the other hand,
we have social networks like Facebook,
Twitter, and Weibo.
And your app is sitting
there in the middle,
right?
Your users are using your app and
they are interested in sharing
some aspect of their experience
of their app with the world.
This is the 21st century.
We live in an age of social media.
And you can be sure that
people want to do that.
So you all know people love your apps.
They download them by the
billions from the App Store.
For both iOS and OS X.
And if you want to deliver a more modern,
a more compelling and engaging
experience to your users,
you have got to do social integration.
This is the thing that's happening now.
So how is it that you can enable
your users to share content
seamlessly with social networks?
And how can you get information
from those social networks,
information from that social graph,
and deliver it to your users to
give them a better experience?
And I know many of you are are
clear sort of on the sharing aspect
but might not be so clear how the
arrow goes the other direction.
And an example I can think
of right now is Flipboard.
It's a great app.
You know, it shows you, like,
your RSS feeds or New York Times or
whatever newspaper,
very nice, great UI.
But it also does something great.
It gets your Facebook or Twitter feeds
and it shows them to you,
delivers them as newspapers that
you can read in the morning.
Very relevant.
Very direct.
A great example of how you can
bring the social graph to your
your users and make great apps.
And there are many other
examples out there.
So you're wondering why do I care if
I already have social integration?
Well,
we're going to show you our APIs that
will make your life a lot easier.
You can adopt these
APIs and you will have
More maintainable code, simpler code,
lots less of the code.
Let's see, what will you learn?
This is sort of a very broad agenda.
Our first half of the talk is
going to deal with what I'm
going to call UI integration.
I'd like to clarify the term now
because I know it can be a little vague.
UI integration is basically anything
you add that is a UI element,
a view controller that will let
your users share on social networks.
We're going to cover how to do
that both on iOS and on OS X.
And then we're going to talk
about advanced integration in
the second half of the talk.
And you can think of advanced integration
as just the way you get access to a
user's account with their permission.
And then you can use that account to
communicate with the service directly.
So you can, if you want to talk to
Facebook API on behalf of the client,
get information from their Facebook feed,
that's the section you
really want to listen to.
So let's do a quick
overview of UI integration.
There's a lot to talk about,
so I want to summarize
from the beginning,
give you the TLDR version.
Back to that diagram,
your app sitting there in the middle,
you're wondering, well,
what API is it going to use
to make my app UI integrated?
And the answer we're going to give
you to begin with are these two APIs,
UI Activity View Controller on iOS
and NSSharing Service Speaker on OS X.
And the really great thing about those
APIs is that they're going to hide
all the details about what the content
being shared is and where it's going.
So you don't have to worry
whether the person is sharing
a movie and is that going to be
uploadable to Twitter or maybe not,
maybe it's Flickr.
You don't have to worry about that.
You don't have to worry about
what networks are available,
what integration is available on the
device and how it fits with the content.
And there's a lot more benefits
to using this built-in UI,
not just the ones that I mentioned.
You are creating a very,
very consistent user experience
by adopting those APIs.
Your users will open the app and
if they want to share something,
they're going to see the Facebook sheet
that we built in every app.
They're going to see the tweet sheet.
They're going to recognize
that UI immediately and they're
going to be able to use it.
And people love that.
It's attractive UI.
It's present everywhere.
It's familiar.
People trust it and they will use it.
And you're making use of Single Sign On.
What that means is that user has
entered their password once in
settings and they don't have to keep
entering it every time an app wants
to access their account to post.
So what you get from that is not just
that it's a one-time password entry,
you're getting automatic
credential management.
That means the user goes on Facebook,
changes their password,
you don't have to worry about that.
We take care of prompting them again
for their password on the device
so that you can continue to share
without worrying about these details.
Another benefit is that it's
really easy to integrate.
You'll see in the next few slides,
often all you need is like four, three,
four, five lines of code.
Not sure exactly how much it is,
but that's all you need to integrate
a view controller into your app
that will let your users share.
So maybe five minutes of work, that's it.
You can even take the code
samples that we give you,
copy paste them,
and they're almost ready to use.
That's how easy it is.
And you get improvements over time.
So that's the it's all in the SDK.
You upgrade your SDK,
you link against it,
and you've got a new UI, maybe a bug fix.
It's all great for you for free.
So let's get started with the
iOS part of the integration.
And in this talk,
we're going to start with
UI Activity View Controller.
And for the purposes of explaining
how this View Controller works,
we're going to use a demo
app called Daily Cat Facts.
Some of you might have
heard of the Cat Facts meme.
This is going to play on it a lot.
So this app basically
gives you a daily cat fact,
as it's called.
And there's a picture of
a cat there just for fun,
because I want to share that cat.
So I see that,
and I just want to share that, right?
So how can I do that?
There's a Share button right there.
It's sitting lonely in
the toolbar at the bottom.
Let's say the user taps that.
What they see is this.
This is UI activity view controller.
Notice how all the
sharing options are there.
Twitter, Facebook, Weibo,
and a few other things that
the user might want to do to
share the picture and the text.
And let's say they hit
the Facebook button.
That's what they get.
They get the Facebook sheet.
And it's already populated with the
image that the user wants to share.
It's populated with the text
that the user wanted to share.
All they have to do
is hit post and there,
it's on Facebook.
So how do you do that in code?
That's it.
That block of code is all it
took to create what you saw,
that UI experience.
First we start by allocating a string,
which is just hello world or
whatever it is that you want there,
your daily cat fact, for example.
Then we allocate a UI image.
We use image name to get that image.
And then we put the image and the
text in an array using the new
collection syntax in Objective C3.
And then we take those activity items.
We allocate a UI activity
view controller.
And then we pass those in as an argument.
And that's all it takes.
Next up,
you just present the view controller
and you get exactly that experience
that I showed in the slides before.
For some of you,
this might be a little too broad.
Maybe you're not interested in
supporting all these social networks.
Maybe you do care about integrating
specifically with Facebook,
with Twitter, with Weibo.
And for you guys,
I would recommend targeted integration.
And we have APIs that support that.
So, you might remember the tweet sheet,
right?
From iOS 5.
We have equivalent sheets like
the Facebook sheet that you
guys just saw a minute ago.
And we have the Weibo sheet,
which is similar to the tweet sheet.
And if your app wants to integrate
one of those sheets only,
that's definitely something you can do.
In the past,
the Twitter framework that we shipped
in iOS 5 enabled you to do that.
So you had a TW Tweet Compose
View Controller that you would
present and there you go,
you got a tweet sheet.
But the Twitter framework is
now deprecated and we'd like
you to move away from using
TW Tweet Compose View Controller.
Instead, we're going to deliver a new
framework that supports all of
our social integration features.
So say hello to the Social framework.
The Social framework,
you can think of it sort of as an
expansion over the Twitter framework.
So here's Twitter and here's Social.
It not only supports Twitter,
it's not going to give you
APIs specific to Twitter only,
its APIs will also support
Facebook and Sinai Weibo.
And the one thing I want to first
stress for this part of the talk is
that you're going to want to learn
more about SL Compose View Controller.
That's the API that's going to
help you display the tweet sheet,
the Facebook sheet, or the Weibo sheet.
And to do that, all you need is just to
use this factory method,
a class method on
SL Compose View Controller.
It's called Compose
View Controller for type.
So how do you use that?
You're going to have to
specify a service type,
right?
That's the one parameter it takes.
And there are three different options.
If you want to display
the Facebook sheet,
you would start with
SL service type Facebook.
If you want to display the tweet sheet,
SL service type Twitter.
And for the Weibo sheet,
you would use SL service
type Sinai Weibo.
Now how do you present an
SL Compose View Controller?
Again, the code is very simple.
You start by using the factory
method that I just mentioned,
Compose View Controller for type.
And here we're trying to
get a Facebook post sheet.
So what we're going to do is
give it SL service type Facebook.
Then we will set the initial
text on that View Controller.
And then we add an image to that
view controller using add image.
And finally, we present it.
And that's all it takes to
just show a Facebook post sheet
with an image and text in it.
Now for UI integration on OS X,
I'd like to welcome Julien
Robert to the stage.
Thank you Lestat.
Hello, my name is Julien.
I will show you how easy it is to
add some sharing capabilities to your
application running on Mountain Lion.
First thing I want to talk
about is the share menu.
So the share menu is the
class NSSharingServiceSpeaker.
And it displays a menu as you can see.
But the good thing about this
list of menu is that it will only
show the services that make sense.
So what does it mean?
It means that it's based
on what you want to share,
but also what accounts are
configured for the current user,
as well as in which region
the user currently is.
Also, this menu can be customized.
You can remove some services that
do not make sense for your app,
but you can also add some entries
to this menu if you want to plug
existing services that you may
have already in your application.
And finally, I want to stress that this
is the easiest way to share.
And as you see,
it's a class that is in AppKit.
So you don't need to link
against any other framework.
And even better,
if your app is sandboxed,
you don't need any entitlements because
everything is done out of process.
So once a user will
pick a sharing option,
what happens?
Well,
we'll display what we call a share sheet.
We have one for Twitter,
another one for Facebook.
So you can see they are very
similar to the iOS counterparts.
But we support a few more services,
like you can easily upload
some photos to Flickr.
But also you can easily send
some pictures or movies to
your friends on iMessage.
And also bigger fries over
airdrop on a local network.
Let's see the sharing architecture.
So this is a schema we saw
earlier with the shareable
contents and the social networks.
So you would give the shareable
content to the picker,
and the picker has a list of sharing
services which points to social networks.
So the thing to note is that the
sharing picker has a delegate,
but also each service
has their own delegates.
But first, let's see what can you share.
Well, it's easy.
You can share any basic
types such as images,
text, which can be attributed or not,
as well as URLs,
which can be local URLs pointing
to files on your system or
remote URLs like for websites.
But you can also use your custom object
providing the implement and writing.
So now let's add this
sharing menu to your app.
So what do you need to do?
First, create this button.
This is a standard button,
and we want all share
buttons to look the same.
On click, you will present the picker.
And then when the user
will pick a service,
you will want to specify a
delegate for this service.
And finally,
implement some delegate methods.
Okay, now let's dive into the code and
see how to create this button.
So it's a regular NS button.
But we have a shared template image
that you can use to add this arrow.
An important detail is that
since we are displaying a menu,
the menu should appear on mouse down.
And since the default action
of a button is on mouse up,
you have to specify that you want
it to be called on mouse down.
Then we set the targets and
the action of the button.
And now let's see the
action of this button.
So first, we gather what we want to
share in an array of items.
Then we create the
picker from this array.
We set the delegate to be self.
And finally,
we ask the picker to be displayed.
So it's displayed relative
to a rect in a view.
But in this case, we want it displayed
relative to our button,
which is sender.
And another rect means bounce.
And then preferred edge lets you display
the menu above or below the button.
So let's go back to our previous schema.
So we've seen that the picker
has a delegate and when the
user will select a service,
the service needs a delegate too.
But where is it coming from?
Well, the delegate for the service
is given by the delegate of the
picker using this delegate method.
Okay, so now we've talked a
lot about this delegates,
but what is it, what it is used for?
Well first,
the delegates will allow you to be aware
of what's happening with the sharing.
So you will be called when
the share sheet is displayed
with a will share item.
But also, when the sharing did
complete successfully,
with the did_share_item delegates method.
But since bad things can happen,
we also have did_fail_to-share_item
method with an error.
And you may want to display
the error somewhere in your UI.
But you need to special case
the NSUserCancelledError,
because it means that the user
just cancels the share sheet.
So don't display an error in this case.
But the delegate of the service also is
useful to make sharing a beautiful user
experience by animating the share sheet.
And for that, we need a few information
from your application,
like the item of the-- the frame
of the item that you are sharing,
if it's an image.
But also a transition image,
the source window, and the content scope.
But before going back to all that,
I would like to do a quick
demo so that you have a better
idea of what I'm talking about.
OK, so this is a very simple
recipe application.
We have recipes with images.
We want to share that,
like to invite some friends for dinner.
So I cheated a bit.
I already added a button here that
I created with the -- I set the
template image that we've talked about.
But for now, as you can see,
nothing happens because there is no
code in the action of the button.
So let's go into the code.
And before implementing the action,
the first thing we want to do is
to call this action on mouse down.
So let's do that when the
application finishes launching.
Okay, so now the action will be
called and now it's done.
And let's implement it.
So it's here.
The first thing we want to do is
get the current recipe to gather
the items we want to share.
So in this case,
we want the name of the recipe,
the image that corresponds
to this recipe,
and the contents,
which is a description of the recipe.
Then we create the picker.
We need it with the
items we just created.
We set ourselves as a
delegate of the picker.
And finally, we tell it to be shown
relative to the button.
OK, so it's very simple.
Let's run now and see what happens.
So now you can see we have a
menu of all available services.
And I can pick one, like for example,
Twitter.
And we have a tweet sheet that appears.
But as you can see,
it's not very nice because it's not
bound to the window of our application.
And there was no nice animation.
So let's see how we can improve that.
Well, first we want to set a
delegate for the service.
So for that,
we use a delegate for sharing service
method that we've seen earlier.
And now we are the delegate of
the service and we can implement
the animation delegate methods.
The first thing is we will
return the frame of the image.
And since we already support Quick Look,
we have a convenience method that
we can use to return this frame.
Next,
we want to return a transition image.
And this will be the image
that is shown in the button.
And finally,
We want to return the source window,
which is self window,
as well as the content scope.
And we'll talk about
the content scope later.
And now if I run again,
And I want to tweet.
We have a nice animation.
And we can send the message.
Okay, so let's review what we did
to have this nice animation.
Well, first, we provided a frame for the
image using the source frame
on screen delegate method.
And the frame should be
in screen coordinates.
Second thing we did is
provide the transition image.
And as you can see in
the delegate method,
there is this content rect.
But what is this content rect thing?
So for example, if you use quick look
to generate a thumbnail,
the image you would return is this thing.
But as you can see there are borders.
And the content rect
corresponds to this area,
which is the core of the
image without the decoration.
So again,
if you use quick look thumbnail,
you can get this frame using
the get content rect function.
Next, we implemented this method
to return the source window,
but also you saw the content scope.
And let's talk more about content scope.
So content scopes are hints for us
to tweak the share sheet animation.
So you will declare from the
context of your items so that we
make the best animation possible.
For example, if you share some items
that are in a list,
like files in the browser,
you would use an item content scope.
But if you are sharing something
that is part of a bigger content,
like an image in a document,
you would use a partial content scope.
And finally,
if you want to share the whole document,
you would use a full content scope.
So if you implement that,
this will make sure that your
animation looks as good as possible.
But maybe the sharing
picker is not what you need.
And for that,
you need more targeting integration.
Example is if you want to
customize a trigger UI,
like in this example,
it's a custom contextual menu.
Or if you want to target
a specific service,
like if you want to add a tweet
button in your application,
you can use a sharing service directly.
And of course, when the user will call
NS serving service,
it will display the same share
sheets as we've seen before,
including the animations will
be used if you set the delegate.
So how to do that?
So it's very easy.
So when your trigger URL is clicked,
so for example when
the button is clicked,
you will get the sharing service that
corresponds to the action you want to do.
In this example,
if you want to post on Twitter,
You set yourself as a
delegate for the service.
And you just call perform with an
array of items that is the same array
of items that you use for the picker.
You may want to enable
your control conditionally,
like to disable the tweet button if
there is no Twitter account configured.
To do that,
you can use the can perform with
items method on the service and
it will tell you if it's possible
to share with this service or not.
And that concludes the
OS X part of sharing.
And Lestat will continue.
So let's recap the two important
points we've talked about in
the first half of the talk.
If you want a beautiful, a simple,
a seamless sharing
experience in your app,
on iOS all you have to do is present
a UI activity view controller and an
OS X and NS sharing service speaker.
And that's really all there is to it.
Now let's jump into advanced integration.
And this is really the
exciting part of the talk.
This is for the ultimate
integration experience.
It will give you the power to access
the account and will show you how
to use that account to communicate
with service APIs on your own.
So there's really the sky's
the limit at that point.
So here's a sample request.
Sort of to ground us in this discussion,
we're going to look at an
example of what you can do once
you have advanced integration.
It's a very simple example.
There's your app on one hand,
and on the other hand,
we have the Facebook server.
And my app is going to try and
get the me object from the me
graph object from Facebook.
So it's going to send a request
to graph.facebook.com slash me.
The server is going to get the request.
It's going to build my me object
with information about me.
And it's going to send
that request to me.
that back to your app.
Now,
if you've ever done that in real life,
you know the cake is a lie.
This is not how it happens.
This is completely oversimplified.
So what you're going to have to
worry about is how you're going
to authenticate with the service.
You're going to have to set
up your request properly.
There's a lot more than
there is in that slide.
But what we're going to show
you with the APIs that we have,
it will be almost that simple.
You will feel as if you just
animated one little object from one
side of the screen to the other.
That's how easy it will be.
So let's get started.
All right.
I want to just do a quick overview
because there are three main
sections we're going to deal with.
And the first is going to be
how to access user accounts.
Then after we see how
to access user accounts,
we're going to talk about
how to construct requests.
And finally, we're going to have a quick
discussion of permissions.
And this is mostly geared towards people
who want to do Facebook integration
because it's a little more nuanced than
it would be with Twitter and Weibo.
So the social framework that we just
introduced a moment ago not only
gives you SL ComposeViewController,
it also provides a
class called SLRequest.
And I want to just take a moment to,
I think many of you may have seen
the deprecation sign and gone like,
"Oh my god, don't worry.
You only have to change prefixes
in 90% of the cases." TWRequest
and TWT ComposeViewController
are very similar classes,
so transitioning will be very easy.
Anyway, for SLRequest,
you are going to be able
to talk to Facebook,
Twitter, and Sinai Weibo.
So it's a more generic API.
It's a lot more flexible.
It's a lot better than TWRequest.
And to use it,
first you get the user's account.
You request access, actually.
You need their permission, of course.
And then you get the account.
And then you create the SL request.
And you provide it with the account.
This is a very important step.
That's where you associate
the account with the request.
And that's how we know to
authenticate the request for you.
And finally, you send the SL request.
You wait for the response
to come back and continue
your app's behavior as usual.
So to access user accounts,
and this is step number one in the grand
scheme of how to request something.
You'll need to become friends
with the accounts framework.
That is where all accounts,
all social accounts are
stored on iOS and OS X.
And in order to get access to
accounts from that framework,
we provide a method on
AC Account Store called
Request Access to Accounts with
Account Type with Completion Handler.
And we'll see how to use
that in just a moment.
Now for Facebook,
you're going to need to add a special
dictionary in your info.p list.
We're going to cover that
in detail once we get to the
Facebook section of the talk.
But for now, just keep that note in mind
because it's really important.
Otherwise,
you will not be able to get access.
Now let's look at code.
This is how you get a Facebook account.
Not a whole lot of code.
You just have to do it
once and then you're good.
First you start by allocating and
initializing an account store.
And I would like you to note how
that account store is actually
a property on the class I'm in.
And that's really important because
the lifetime of the account store is
tied to the accounts that it vends.
You should not release your account store
when you're just done requesting access.
It needs to live for as
long as the accounts live.
All right?
So then we get the account type object.
Very simple call.
We just say account type
with account type identifier.
We pass in the string
identifier for Facebook.
Then we go on to call the
request access method.
We pass in the account type
object we just got and then we
pass in a completion handler.
And that completion handler is
going to take two arguments.
It's going to provide you
back with two arguments.
One of them is going to be a
Boolean and it's going to say,
"Yes, you were granted access" or "No,
you were not granted access." And then
the second argument is going to be
an NSError object that will contain
information about anything that may
have gone wrong during the request.
Now, if you were granted access, hooray,
all you have to do is just call accounts
with account type and pass in the account
type object that you got a moment ago.
And then you have an array of the
accounts that are on the--that
have been added to the device.
Now, for Facebook accounts,
this is not true for Twitter and Weibo,
but for Facebook accounts,
on iOS and OS X,
there's only one account per device.
So you can call last object
on that array and you've got a
Facebook account ready to use.
So we're going to hold that in
our property and self.facebook
account and we're going to get
back to it in just a moment.
So to build your request,
you've got your account, right?
That's great.
You initialize your SL request instance.
You're going to have to have a URL.
You need to know what you're
going to talk to on the server.
You need to have an HTTP method.
You need to know what
that endpoint accepts.
Is it get?
Is it post?
Is it delete?
And then finally,
you're going to need to know what
parameters that endpoint is expecting.
And this may be a nil dictionary.
It might be a dictionary
of several parameters.
And finally, you set the account property
on the on the SR request.
That's where the
association is happening.
I can't stress how important that is.
And then finally,
you perform it and handle the response.
So the reason I keep stressing this is
that the association between the account
and the request is what allows us to take
care of the signing the request for you.
And I'm going to show you how to do that.
So let's go ahead and start with the OS.
So the OS is a service that allows
you to authenticate your code.
And that is awesome.
It just you cannot imagine how
much code goes into writing a
lot of one or two implementation.
And how many bugs get written fixed
just to be able to authenticate
a request with a service.
And we're going to do
all of that for you.
So many of you might be familiar with
the We're calling the OS sandwich.
And it's basically your app on the top
and the top one and the bottom one.
There's the API for Twitter, Facebook,
or whatever you want to talk to you.
And there's all sitting in the middle
all the time because you need to
authenticate with a service somehow.
And that's the way it works.
So the OS is a service that allows
you to authenticate your code.
And that's the protocol
everyone's adopting.
And we know how much fun
that is to implement.
But when you use SL request,
that's all gone.
You don't have to worry about it anymore.
Yeah, I heard that.
You've written the code before.
So how to access a user's profile.
That's the example we sort of
started with at the beginning,
if you remember, my me object.
And now I'm going to
implement it in code.
And look at all that.
It's like four or five lines.
Nothing more is needed.
First, you get your URL.
We already know what it is.
Graph.facebook.com slash me.
And then we use the class method
on SL request to get the object.
So we use SL service type Facebook.
That's the service type we
used to get the Facebook sheet,
if you remember still.
And then we pass in the method get
because we're going to that's the
HTTP method accepted by that endpoint.
And then we give it the URL.
And there's no parameters
necessary for that endpoint.
So we just pass nil.
Then we associate magic
happens behind the scene.
And we perform the
request with this handler.
And the handler is going to come back
with it's very similar to the request.
So any URL handle handler.
So you're going to get NSData,
which is a response from the server.
You're going to get an
NS HTTP URL response describing
the response from the server with
things like the HTTP status code.
And finally,
we're going to get an NSError object
indicating if an error happened or not.
Now I would like to demo
the great APIs for account
access and for SLR request.
And for that purpose,
we're going to use the
app daily cat facts.
We're going to see an improved
version of that by my colleague,
Kal Haglunds.
So, hello everyone.
The app I'm dev'ing today is,
as Lestat said, the Daily Cat Facts.
So the purpose of Daily Cat Facts
is to give a nugget of cat
information to the user every day.
So you already have this app
installed in the iPhone simulator.
Just dive in and see
what this looks like.
So here you see the daily cat facts app.
And at the top, you see a kitten.
Its only purpose is there to be cute.
And below the kitten, you see a cat fact.
Did you guys know that a cat
can jump up to five times its
own height in a single bound?
I sure didn't know that and we'll see
that my immediate urge is to share this
amazing fact with my friends on Facebook.
So to do that,
I've added a button below the fact.
But if I press that button now,
nothing happens.
That is because even though
I wired this button up to call
a method in my view controller,
there's no code in there yet.
So,
how can we make this app a social app?
Well,
first I would like to point out that
this app would be a prime candidate
for the U Activity View controller.
It would be very easy to implement that.
But for the sake of this demonstration,
we'll do the deeper integration
here and try to post this fact
directly to the Facebook timeline.
So the first thing we need to
do is to add the dictionary with
keys into our applications plist.
So let's start Xcode and
see how we'll do that.
So now we're in Xcode.
Let's try to locate my application plist.
And I drop it right in here.
As you can see,
I added a dictionary with the key
AC Facebook Client Access Info.
If I open this dictionary up,
you can see there's a
bunch of keys in there.
I won't go over them in detail now
because Lestat will do that later.
But I would like to point out
that this dictionary in the
P list is only for seed one.
In a future seed,
you'll pass this dictionary in with
the request to the account store.
I will show that later.
So, now that we have the dictionary
in the application's plist,
let's go and try to request
access to the account.
To do that, I open up the view
controller for this app.
And here you can see
I have my post method.
This method is the method
which is called when we tap the
button in the user interface.
So to start up, we are setting the status
label at the bottom of the app
to waiting for authorization.
We then check in for our account stores,
Neil.
If it is, we allocate it into
the new account store.
And as Lestat said,
it's very important to keep this account
store around as long as you're using the
accounts you got from that account store.
We then go ahead and fetch
the Facebook account type
from the account store.
If we have that Facebook account type,
we can request access to the account.
We do it by calling request
access to accounts with type,
we pass in our type,
and we pass in a completion
handler which will be called when
the user has made a decision.
So in that completion handler,
we check for success.
That means that either we already
had access or the user pressed OK,
I'll show that later.
If you're successful,
we set a status message so
you can keep around for later.
And then we go ahead and fetch the
Facebook accounts from the account
store with accounts with account type.
And as Lestat said,
there will only be one
Facebook account on the device.
So here for simplicity,
I just go ahead and fetch the
last object from that array.
When we have that object,
we'll be posting the cat factor
to feed by calling in the
post cat factor feed method.
Also, we have to handle the failure case
in case we don't have access to user
press no or something like that.
And you probably need some more
intricate error handling here,
but keep it simple for now.
So if I scroll down now,
you see there's no code in the
post cat factor feed method.
But before we implement that,
let's build and run the app
and see what it looks like.
So here's the daily catfacts app again.
It looks as it did before,
but when I hit the post
to Facebook button,
You see that a dialog pops up.
This is the accounts framework asking
the user if it's OK that this app
uses the user's Facebook account.
And we want to post this
cat effect to the timeline,
so we just press OK.
If you now go into the settings app,
and go into the Facebook section.
You see that a daily
CatFacts app is listed.
This means the user can turn
on and off access at any time.
The users are in control.
So let's see how we can implement
posting to Timeline in our app.
Open up Xcode again.
We start by creating a
dictionary with the parameters
we want to send to Facebook.
In this case,
this is the message parameter,
and we have set a value to cat fact.
Then we create a URL which points
to the endpoint we want to talk
to on the Facebook platform.
In this case,
this is the Me Feed endpoint.
Then we just go ahead
and create a request.
We're calling it request
for service type.
We pass in as a service type Facebook.
This is an HTTP post request,
so we pass in as a request method post.
We pass in the feed URL we
just created and the parameters
dictionary we just created.
So, very importantly,
we then set the account property on the
request so the request can authenticate
itself against the Facebook platform.
Then we simply call perform
request with handler and
In the completion handler,
we should probably check HTTP status,
check for platform errors.
But in this case,
I'm just going to set the status
label text to fact posted to Facebook.
And please note that I'm dispatching
this to the main thread in the app.
That's because any completion
handler in both the accounts
framework and the social framework
will be called an arbitrary thread.
So if you want to do UI updates,
you have to dispatch
that to the main thread.
So let's build around
and see if this works.
So now when I press the
post to Facebook button,
we won't get an alert because the
counselor has already asked us about that
and it remembers that we gave it access.
Press post to Facebook.
And set fact post to Facebook.
So let's go in mobile Safari.
and as you can see,
the fact was posted to my timeline
so all my friends can see it.
Thank you very much and I would like
to welcome Lestat back up on the stage.
Thank you, Kal.
That was a great demo.
Don't you just love it when people
can spam you with daily cat facts
every day on your Facebook wall?
We're going to get to the section
with dealing with permissions,
but.
Since we're running really tight on time,
we're going to have to go a little
too fast for some of you guys.
You might not appreciate
how fast I'm going.
Our lab is just after the session.
Please feel free to come talk
to me if anything is unclear.
So you may have been tipped off by
that more info button in the access
request that there's something to
Facebook permissions that's not as
clear as maybe Twitter or Weibo.
And so you do have to handle access
to Facebook accounts with a little
more nuance than with Twitter.
And the reason is people put
a lot of personal information
in the Facebook accounts,
maybe a little more than Twitter.
So access to those accounts is protected
in a more fine-grained way because you
kind of want to tell the person what it
is you want to do with their account.
Most people will not feel comfortable
just handing you over access to their
account and you can do whatever you want.
There's a lot of potential for misuse.
So you have to tell us what
permissions you want for that account.
You have to tell us what you intend
to do with it and we're going to
pass that information onto the server
so that Facebook knows what you're
planning on doing with the account.
And those permissions are all
documented on Facebook's website.
You'll see an example
of them in the slides,
but there's a lot of them and
they're very well documented on
the Facebook developer website.
So the Access Dictionary that we've
been keeping mysterious for so long.
Finally, we're going to get to it.
We're going to talk about it a little.
It's something that you have to pass
under AC Facebook Client Access Info
in your InfoP list only for Seed 1.
So for those of you
watching this in the future,
do not put this in your InfoP list.
This goes as a parameter in
the access request method.
Now,
the Access Dictionary is pretty simple,
just four keys.
The first key is App ID,
just pass in your Facebook App ID,
that's on the website.
The second key, don't worry about it,
it's going to become optional in C2.
It is for those who are planning
to do more of an advanced
integration and they have to deal
with different platform versions.
Most of you will not have to
care about this and you won't
have to enter it C2 and onward.
The next key is the permissions
key and that's where you enter
an array of the permissions
you're requesting from Facebook.
Now, this is the one we use
for daily cat facts.
The permission is called publish
stream and it means we're going
to write to the user's timeline.
And that's the only thing we
want to do with the account,
so that's the only
permission that we requested,
but you may request more.
Finally,
AC Facebook permission group key is
the last parameter you have to pass
and it needs to describe as closely
as possible the permissions that
you are requesting in that array.
So there are three values.
There's read, there's write,
and there's read write.
And you pass in a value,
basically we're going to talk
about how to determine the value,
but conceptually speaking it's simple.
You just describe what you're
about to do with the account,
what permissions you're requesting.
We want to write to the timeline,
so we just pass in write.
Now, how do you choose it?
I prepared a few examples to help
you get the right permission group.
If you want to use permissions
like user about me,
basically read anything
from the user profile.
Or if you want to read from
their friends' profiles,
or if you want to get a
list of email addresses,
you should be passing in read.
Now, if you want to do things
that write to their profile,
like publish actions on their
behalf or publish things like
status updates to their stream,
then you need to use the
permission group right.
And if you want both
kinds of permissions,
you would pass in read right.
Pretty simple.
Now one tiny caveat is you can't request
all permissions right now in Seed 1.
There are some permissions labeled
as extended permissions and those
you can't request in your Info.plist.
So this includes reading
the entire user's timeline.
And this is a little different
from reading status updates
or some items that they post.
Reading their timeline includes
other friends posts and so that's why
it's labeled an extended permission.
Or managing pages on the page.
So you can't request all permissions on
their behalf and a few other permissions
that are going to be documented online.
And this may or may not
change in the future.
Just stay tuned.
We're working on it.
Right, so the last topic that's
Facebook specific is you need
to make sure that you always
have access to the account.
It's not as clear as it might
be with Twitter and Weibo.
And Kal actually showed you
one way you might lose access.
If you go to settings,
if the user goes to settings,
they might flip the switch on your app,
right?
And then you can't access
the account anymore.
But there are other
things that might happen.
And every app basically gets
issued a token when they request
authorization to access the account.
And that token will expire.
And when that token expires,
you need to be ready.
And I'm going to show you what to do.
Also, the user can remove your app
from the Facebook website.
Every profile, there's an apps tab.
You can go there and hit
X next to any app you want.
It goes away right away.
So, and finally,
there's also the switch in settings.
Keep that in mind.
So, what do you do?
The way you find out that you lost
access most of the time is you
get an error 190 when you send
a request to the Facebook API.
And that comes back in the NSData.
When you serialize that to JSON or
whatever your preferred format is,
you're going to see an
error object in there.
And it's going to have code 190 in it.
And what you need to do at that
point is you renew your token by
calling an AC account store method
whose name is renew credentials
for account with handler.
You pass in the account.
You pass in a completion handler.
In the completion handler,
you're going to get one of three results.
One could be credential renewal renewed.
That's great.
Your token had just expired.
That's normal.
We renew it for you.
Great.
Now,
you may have been rejected by the user.
What that means is the user has performed
some action that indicates that they no
longer want you to access their account.
And that might be that they turned off
the switch in settings or it might be
that they removed you from the website.
That's when you get that
completion callback.
Finally, you might get renewal failed and
that indicates that some sort of
error happened beyond our control.
You might try again and succeed.
Now, if you have FB Connect already,
some of you have integrated
that with their apps.
That's great.
You'll be pleased to know that
support will be pretty much automatic.
We're just going to update our
own APIs in the next year to help
FB Connect build on top of that.
And there's going to be a major update
to FB Connect soon enough that will
allow you to just get automatic support.
So there's really very
little you have to do.
Now, if you need more information,
please contact Paul Marcos or
refer to the documentation online.
I'm going to have to
quickly go through that.
For those of you watching online,
just pause and get the links.
And finally,
just a summary before you guys
leave of the things we talked about.
If you want UI integration, very easy.
All you have to do is use UI Activity
View Controller on iOS and
NS Sharing Service Speaker on OS X.
If you want deeper integration,
talk to the accounts framework
for access and then use SL Request
to send requests to the service.
And finally, if you have FB Connect,
really, there's not much to worry about.
You'll get automatic support.
That's it.
Thank you, everyone, for coming.
I hope you have a great beer bash.